now it came to pass when Isaac was old
now it came to pass when Isaac was old and his eyes were so dim that he could
and his eyes were so dim that he could
and his eyes were so dim that he could not see that he called Esau his older
not see that he called Esau his older
not see that he called Esau his older son and said to him my son Here I am
son and said to him my son Here I am
son and said to him my son Here I am behold now I am old I do not know the
behold now I am old I do not know the
behold now I am old I do not know the day of my death
day of my death
day of my death now therefore please take your weapons
now therefore please take your weapons
now therefore please take your weapons your quiver and your bow and go out to
your quiver and your bow and go out to
your quiver and your bow and go out to the field and hunt game for me and make
the field and hunt game for me and make
the field and hunt game for me and make me savory foods such as I love and bring
me savory foods such as I love and bring
me savory foods such as I love and bring it to me that I may eat that my soul may
it to me that I may eat that my soul may
it to me that I may eat that my soul may bless you before I die now Rebekah was
bless you before I die now Rebekah was
bless you before I die now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his
listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his
listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his son and he saw went to the field to hunt
son and he saw went to the field to hunt
son and he saw went to the field to hunt game and to bring it so Rebecca spoke to
game and to bring it so Rebecca spoke to
game and to bring it so Rebecca spoke to Jacob her son indeed I heard your father
Jacob her son indeed I heard your father
Jacob her son indeed I heard your father speak - II saw your brother saying bring
speak - II saw your brother saying bring
speak - II saw your brother saying bring me game and make savory food for me that
me game and make savory food for me that
me game and make savory food for me that I may eat it and bless you in the
I may eat it and bless you in the
I may eat it and bless you in the presence of the Lord before my death now
presence of the Lord before my death now
presence of the Lord before my death now therefore my son obey my voice according
therefore my son obey my voice according
therefore my son obey my voice according to what I command you go now to the
to what I command you go now to the
to what I command you go now to the flock and bring me from there - choice
flock and bring me from there - choice
flock and bring me from there - choice kids of the goats and I will make savory
kids of the goats and I will make savory
kids of the goats and I will make savory food from them for your father such as
food from them for your father such as
food from them for your father such as he loves then you shall take it to your
he loves then you shall take it to your
he loves then you shall take it to your father that he may eat it and that he
father that he may eat it and that he
father that he may eat it and that he may bless you before his death look II
may bless you before his death look II
may bless you before his death look II saw my brother is a hairy man and I am a
saw my brother is a hairy man and I am a
saw my brother is a hairy man and I am a smooth skinned man perhaps my father
smooth skinned man perhaps my father
smooth skinned man perhaps my father will feel me and I shall seem to be a
will feel me and I shall seem to be a
will feel me and I shall seem to be a deceiver to him and I shall bring a
deceiver to him and I shall bring a
deceiver to him and I shall bring a curse on myself and not a blessing let
curse on myself and not a blessing let
curse on myself and not a blessing let your curse be on me my son only obey my
your curse be on me my son only obey my
your curse be on me my son only obey my voice and go get them for me and he went
voice and go get them for me and he went
voice and go get them for me and he went and got them and brought them to his
and got them and brought them to his
and got them and brought them to his mother
and his malonate savory food such as his
and his malonate savory food such as his father loved then Rebecca took the
father loved then Rebecca took the
father loved then Rebecca took the choice clothes of her eldest son Esau
choice clothes of her eldest son Esau
choice clothes of her eldest son Esau which were with her in the house and put
which were with her in the house and put
which were with her in the house and put them on Jacob her youngest son and she
them on Jacob her youngest son and she
them on Jacob her youngest son and she put the skins of the kids of the goats
put the skins of the kids of the goats
put the skins of the kids of the goats on his hands and on the smooth part of
on his hands and on the smooth part of
on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck then she gave the savoury food
his neck then she gave the savoury food
his neck then she gave the savoury food and the bread which she had prepared
and the bread which she had prepared
and the bread which she had prepared into the hand of her son Jacob so he
into the hand of her son Jacob so he
into the hand of her son Jacob so he went to his father and said My father
went to his father and said My father
went to his father and said My father Here I am who are you my son Jacob said
Here I am who are you my son Jacob said
Here I am who are you my son Jacob said to his father
to his father
to his father I am Esau your firstborn I have done
I am Esau your firstborn I have done
I am Esau your firstborn I have done just as you told me please arise sit and
just as you told me please arise sit and
just as you told me please arise sit and eat of my game that your soul may bless
eat of my game that your soul may bless
eat of my game that your soul may bless me how is it that you have found it so
me how is it that you have found it so
me how is it that you have found it so quickly my son because the Lord your God
quickly my son because the Lord your God
quickly my son because the Lord your God brought it to me please
brought it to me please
brought it to me please come near that I may feel you my son
come near that I may feel you my son
come near that I may feel you my son whether you are really my son Esau or
whether you are really my son Esau or
whether you are really my son Esau or not
not
not so Jacob went near to Isaac his father
so Jacob went near to Isaac his father
so Jacob went near to Isaac his father and he felt him and said the voices
and he felt him and said the voices
and he felt him and said the voices Jacob's voice but the hands are the
Jacob's voice but the hands are the
Jacob's voice but the hands are the hands of Esau and he did not recognize
hands of Esau and he did not recognize
hands of Esau and he did not recognize him because his hands were hairy like
him because his hands were hairy like
him because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau s hands so he blessed
his brother Esau s hands so he blessed
his brother Esau s hands so he blessed him then he said are you really my son
him then he said are you really my son
him then he said are you really my son Esau I am bring it near to me and I will
Esau I am bring it near to me and I will
Esau I am bring it near to me and I will eat of my son's game so that my soul may
eat of my son's game so that my soul may
eat of my son's game so that my soul may bless you
bless you
bless you so he brought it near to him and he ate
so he brought it near to him and he ate
so he brought it near to him and he ate and he brought him wine and he drank
and he brought him wine and he drank
and he brought him wine and he drank then his father Isaac said to him come
then his father Isaac said to him come
then his father Isaac said to him come near now and kiss me my son and he came
near now and kiss me my son and he came
near now and kiss me my son and he came near and kissed him and he smelled the
near and kissed him and he smelled the
near and kissed him and he smelled the smell of his clothing and blessed him
surely the smell of my son is like the
surely the smell of my son is like the smell of a field which the Lord has
smell of a field which the Lord has
smell of a field which the Lord has blessed therefore may God give you of
blessed therefore may God give you of
blessed therefore may God give you of the dew of heaven of the fatness of the
the dew of heaven of the fatness of the
the dew of heaven of the fatness of the earth and plenty of grain and wine let
earth and plenty of grain and wine let
earth and plenty of grain and wine let peoples serve you and nations bow down
peoples serve you and nations bow down
peoples serve you and nations bow down to you be master over your brethren and
to you be master over your brethren and
to you be master over your brethren and let your mother's sons bow down to you
let your mother's sons bow down to you
let your mother's sons bow down to you cursed be everyone who curses you and
cursed be everyone who curses you and
cursed be everyone who curses you and blessed be those who bless you now it
blessed be those who bless you now it
blessed be those who bless you now it happened as soon as Isaac had finished
happened as soon as Isaac had finished
happened as soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob and Jacob had scarcely
blessing Jacob and Jacob had scarcely
blessing Jacob and Jacob had scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his
gone out from the presence of Isaac his
gone out from the presence of Isaac his father that Esau his brother came in
father that Esau his brother came in
father that Esau his brother came in from his hunting he also had made savory
from his hunting he also had made savory
from his hunting he also had made savory food and brought it to his father
food and brought it to his father
food and brought it to his father let my father arise and eat of his son's
let my father arise and eat of his son's
let my father arise and eat of his son's game that your soul may bless me
who are you I am your son your firstborn
who are you I am your son your firstborn Issa then Isaac trembled exceedingly who
Issa then Isaac trembled exceedingly who
Issa then Isaac trembled exceedingly who where is the one who hunted game and
where is the one who hunted game and
where is the one who hunted game and brought it to me I ate all of it before
brought it to me I ate all of it before
brought it to me I ate all of it before you came and I have blessed him and
you came and I have blessed him and
you came and I have blessed him and indeed he shall be blessed when Esau
indeed he shall be blessed when Esau
indeed he shall be blessed when Esau heard the words of his father he cried
heard the words of his father he cried
heard the words of his father he cried with an exceedingly great and bitter cry
with an exceedingly great and bitter cry
with an exceedingly great and bitter cry bless me me also o my father your
bless me me also o my father your
bless me me also o my father your brother came with deceit he has taken
brother came with deceit he has taken
brother came with deceit he has taken away your blessing is he not rightly
away your blessing is he not rightly
away your blessing is he not rightly named Jacob for he has supplanted me
named Jacob for he has supplanted me
named Jacob for he has supplanted me these two times he took away my
these two times he took away my
these two times he took away my birthright and now look he has taken
birthright and now look he has taken
birthright and now look he has taken away my blessing have you not reserved a
away my blessing have you not reserved a
away my blessing have you not reserved a blessing for me indeed I have made him
blessing for me indeed I have made him
blessing for me indeed I have made him your master and all his brother and I
your master and all his brother and I
your master and all his brother and I have given to him as servants with grain
have given to him as servants with grain
have given to him as servants with grain and wine I have sustained him what shall
and wine I have sustained him what shall
and wine I have sustained him what shall I do now for you my son have you only
I do now for you my son have you only
I do now for you my son have you only one blessing my father bless me me also
one blessing my father bless me me also
one blessing my father bless me me also o my father and he saw lifted up his
o my father and he saw lifted up his
o my father and he saw lifted up his voice and wept then Isaac his father
voice and wept then Isaac his father
voice and wept then Isaac his father answered and said to him behold your
answered and said to him behold your
answered and said to him behold your dwelling shall be of the fatness of the
dwelling shall be of the fatness of the
dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth and of the dew of heaven from
earth and of the dew of heaven from
earth and of the dew of heaven from above by your sword you shall live and
above by your sword you shall live and
above by your sword you shall live and you shall serve your brother then it
you shall serve your brother then it
you shall serve your brother then it shall come to pass when you become
shall come to pass when you become
shall come to pass when you become restless that you shall break his yoke
restless that you shall break his yoke
restless that you shall break his yoke from your neck
from your neck
from your neck so Esau hated Jacob because of the
so Esau hated Jacob because of the
so Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father blessed
blessing with which his father blessed
blessing with which his father blessed him and he saw said in his heart the
him and he saw said in his heart the
him and he saw said in his heart the days of mourning for my father are at
days of mourning for my father are at
days of mourning for my father are at hand then I will kill my brother Jacob
hand then I will kill my brother Jacob
hand then I will kill my brother Jacob and the words of Esau her older son were
and the words of Esau her older son were
and the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah so she sent and called
told to Rebekah so she sent and called
told to Rebekah so she sent and called Jacob her younger son surely your
Jacob her younger son surely your
Jacob her younger son surely your brother Esau comfort himself concerning
brother Esau comfort himself concerning
brother Esau comfort himself concerning you by intending to kill you now
you by intending to kill you now
you by intending to kill you now therefore my son obey my voice
therefore my son obey my voice
therefore my son obey my voice arise flee to my brother Laban in hey
arise flee to my brother Laban in hey
arise flee to my brother Laban in hey run and stay with him a few days until
run and stay with him a few days until
run and stay with him a few days until your brother's Fury turns away until
your brother's Fury turns away until
your brother's Fury turns away until your brother's anger turns away from you
your brother's anger turns away from you
your brother's anger turns away from you and he forgets what you have done to him
and he forgets what you have done to him
and he forgets what you have done to him then I will send and bring you from
then I will send and bring you from
then I will send and bring you from there why should I be bereaved also view
there why should I be bereaved also view
there why should I be bereaved also view both in one day and Rebekah said to
both in one day and Rebekah said to
both in one day and Rebekah said to Isaac I am weary of my life because of
Isaac I am weary of my life because of
Isaac I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth if Jacob takes a
the daughters of Heth if Jacob takes a
the daughters of Heth if Jacob takes a wife of the daughters of Heth like these
wife of the daughters of Heth like these
wife of the daughters of Heth like these who are the daughters of the land what
who are the daughters of the land what
who are the daughters of the land what good will my life be to me